did-webplus/software-wallet-indexeddb/README.md, before:

# did-webplus-software-wallet-indexeddb

Software wallet implementation for did-webplus, using IndexedDB as the storage backend.  This is only available on `target_arch = "wasm32"`.

## Necessary Toolchain

Note that you may need to install a few things:

-   The wasm32 Rust toolchain -- needed to build:

        rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown

-   The `wasm-pack` tool -- needed to create the JS/TS package:

        cargo install wasm-pack

-   NodeJS -- needed to run tests.  I installed the LTS (Long-Term Support) v18.19.1 from Ubuntu 24.

## Running Tests

Note that node.js does not support IndexedDB, and therefore this crate can not be run against node.js.

### Running Tests in Browser (Headless Mode)

From this directory (the did-webplus-software-wallet-indexeddb crate directory), run one of the following:

    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --chrome
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --firefox
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --safari

You can even combine them if you have multiple browsers, e.g.

    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --chrome --firefox --safari

### Running Tests in Browser (Headful Mode)

From this directory (the did-webplus-software-wallet-indexeddb crate directory), run one of the following:

    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --chrome
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --firefox
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --safari

It will print a URL to open in your browser, and once open, the tests will run there.

## Notes on Logging

When using the SDK or running the tests in the browser, logging messages will be recorded in the usual place (see developer console) and are mapped from the `log`/`tracing` crate macros to browser console events in the following way:
| ----- | ------- |
| Rust  | Browser |
| ----- | ------- |
| error | error   |
| warn  | warn    |
| info  | info    |
| debug | log     |
| trace | debug   |

When running the tests in headless browser mode, only the Rust debug level messages will be sent to stdout.  The `RUST_LOG` env var doesn't affect this (it applies to the wasm-pack process that runs the tests, but not the tests themselves).

## Running Example

TODO: IMPLEMENT EXAMPLE AND UPDATE THIS SECTION FOR THIS CRATE

Ensure the wasm package has been built:

    wasm-pack build --target web

This should populate the `pkg` directory with various files, including:

    did_webplus_wasm_bg.wasm
    did_webplus_wasm_bg.wasm.d.ts
    did_webplus_wasm.d.ts
    did_webplus_wasm.js
    .gitignore
    package.json
    README.md

Then run a local web server to serve the example web page (index.html), e.g.

    python3 -m http.server 3000

and then load http://localhost:3000 in your web browser.  This is a very ugly -- but working -- example of some critical features of did-webplus running in a browser.

Commit message:

Updates to SoftwareWalletIndexedDB to get it working before the stabilizing merge from main branch.

did-webplus/software-wallet-indexeddb/README.md, after:

# did-webplus-software-wallet-indexeddb

Software wallet implementation for did-webplus, using IndexedDB as the storage backend.  This is only available on `target_arch = "wasm32"`.

## Necessary Toolchain

Note that you may need to install a few things:

-   The wasm32 Rust toolchain -- needed to build:

        rustup target add wasm32-unknown-unknown

-   The `wasm-pack` tool -- needed to create the JS/TS package:

        cargo install wasm-pack

-   NodeJS -- needed to run tests.  I installed the LTS (Long-Term Support) v18.19.1 from Ubuntu 24.

## Running Tests

Before running tests, the did-webplus VDR and VDG must be running.  See [did-webplus-wasm crate's README.md](../wasm/README.md) for instructions.

Note that node.js does not support IndexedDB, and therefore this crate can not be run against node.js.

### Running Tests in Browser (Headless Mode)

From this directory (the did-webplus-software-wallet-indexeddb crate directory), run one of the following:

    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --chrome
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --firefox
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --safari

You can even combine them if you have multiple browsers, e.g.

    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --headless --chrome --firefox --safari

### Running Tests in Browser (Headful Mode)

From this directory (the did-webplus-software-wallet-indexeddb crate directory), run one of the following:

    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --chrome
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --firefox
    WASM_BINDGEN_USE_BROWSER=1 wasm-pack test --safari

It will print a URL to open in your browser, and once open, the tests will run there.

## Notes on Logging

When using the SDK or running the tests in the browser, logging messages will be recorded in the usual place (see developer console) and are mapped from the `log`/`tracing` crate macros to browser console events in the following way:
| ----- | ------- |
| Rust  | Browser |
| ----- | ------- |
| error | error   |
| warn  | warn    |
| info  | info    |
| debug | log     |
| trace | debug   |

When running the tests in headless browser mode, only the Rust debug level messages will be sent to stdout.  The `RUST_LOG` env var doesn't affect this (it applies to the wasm-pack process that runs the tests, but not the tests themselves).
